Mdkessler patch 8 (#273)
Benjamin-Lee/deep-rules: content/03.when-to-use-dl.md

However, areas of biology that rely on manual data collection may not possess enough data to effectively train and apply deep learning models.
Though there are methods that try to increase the amount of training data, such as data augmentation (in which existing data is slightly manipulated in an attempt to yield "new" samples) and weak supervision (in which simple labeling heuristics are combined to produce noisy, probabilistic labels) [@arxiv:1605.07723v3], these methods cannot overcome a complete shortage of data.
A general rule of thumb is that deep learning can be considered for datasets with at least one hundred samples per class [@arxiv:1511.06348], although it is really best suited for use with datasets that contain orders of magnitude more samples.

Training deep learning models is also very demanding, and often requires extensive computing infrastructure and patience to achieve state-of-the-art performance [@doi:10.1109/JPROC.2017.2761740].
In some deep learning contexts, such as generating human-like text, state-of-the-art models have over one hundred billion parameters [@arxiv:2005.14165] and require very costly and time-consuming training [@arxiv:1906.02243].

> Fortunately, most deep learning applications in biology do not require nearly this much training, although they usually do require computational resources beyond those available on typical consumer-grade devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though deep learning applications in biology rarely require this much training, they can require computational resources beyond those available on typical consumer-grade devices.
```
Is a discrete GPU really "beyond those available on typical consumer-grade devices"? I went with it but I'm not sure this is really accurate looking at the current literature.

Reviewer 2: Not quite "beyond" it but not super common. How about:

```suggestion
Though deep learning applications in biology rarely require this much training, they can require computational resources beyond those available on consumer-grade devices such as laptops or office desktops.
```

Gaming PCs all have discrete GPUs but your average office PC probably wouldn't have one.

> Further specialized hardware such as discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and custom deep learning accelerators can dramatically reduce the time and cost required to train models, but this hardware is not universally accessible and cloud-based rentals add additional cost and complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specialized hardware such as discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and custom deep learning accelerators can dramatically reduce the time and cost required to train models, but this hardware is not universally accessible and cloud-based rentals add additional cost and complexity.
```

> Despite these limiting factors, these specialized hardware solutions are likely to be more broadly available as deep learning becomes more popular (for example, recent-generation iPhones already have such hardware).

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this sentence adds, especially with the question two sentences above.

Reviewer 2: We can kill the sentence; I was just trying to buy some time before the paper reads like a relic..

In contrast to these large scale computational demands of deep learning, traditional machine learning models can often be trained on a laptop (or even on a \$5 computer [@arxiv:1809.00238]) in seconds to minutes.
Therefore, due to this enormous disparity in resource demand alone, traditional machine learning approaches may still prove desirable in a variety of biological applications.

> Beyond the necessity for greater data volume and computational capacity when applying deep learning, building and training deep learning models generally requires more expertise than do traditional machine learning models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond requiring more data and computational capacity, building and training deep learning models often requires more expertise than training traditional machine learning models.
```

While these frameworks allow users to create and deploy entirely novel model architectures, this flexibility combined with the rapid development of the deep learning field has resulted in large and complex frameworks that can be daunting to new users.
For readers new to software development but experienced in biology, gaining computational skills while interfacing with such complex industrial-grade tools can be a prohibitive challenge.
Conversely, traditional machine learning methods are generally more straightforward to implement, and there are currently more tools for automating the model selection and training process for traditional machine learning models than there are for deep learning models.
For example, automated machine learning (AutoML) tools, such as TPOT [@doi:10.1007/978-3-319-31204-0_9] and Turi Create [@https://github.com/apple/turicreate], are able to automatically test and optimize multiple machine learning models, and can allow users to achieve competitive performance with only a few lines of code.

> Thankfully, there are efforts underway to extend these and other autmoation frameworks in order to reduce the expertise required to build and use deep learning models as well.

Reviewer 2: Typo:

```suggestion
Thankfully, there are efforts underway to extend these and other automation frameworks in order to reduce the expertise required to build and use deep learning models as well.
```

> For example, TPOT and Turi Create and AutoKeras [@arxiv:1806.10282], are already capable of abstracting away much of the programming required for "standard" deep learning tasks, and high level interfaces such as Keras [@https://keras.io], make it increasingly straightforward to design and test custom deep learning architectures.

Reviewer 2: Lots of "and" at the beginning. How about:

```suggestion
For example, TPOT, Turi Create and AutoKeras [@arxiv:1806.10282], are already capable of abstracting away much of the programming required for "standard" deep learning tasks, and high level interfaces such as Keras [@https://keras.io], make it increasingly straightforward to design and test custom deep learning architectures
```

In the future, projects such as these are likely to make deep learning increasingly accessible to a much wider swatch of researchers.

Despite these limitations, deep learning is strongly indicated over traditional machine learning for certain research questions and problems.
In general, these include problems that feature hidden patterns across the data, complex relationships, and interrelated variables.
Problems in computer vision and natural language processing often exhibit exhibit these very features, which helps to explain why these areas were some of the first to experience significant breakthroughs during the recent deep learning revolution [@doi:10.1145/3065386]. 

> As long as data of sufficient quantity and quality is available (_i.e._ large amounts of accurate and labeled data), applications to areas of biology with related data characteristics, such as genetic medicine [@doi:10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00290], radiology [@doi:10.1007/s11604-018-0726-3], microscopy [@doi:10.1364/OPTICA.4.001437], and pharmacovigilance [@doi:10.1093/jamia/ocw180], are similarly likely to benefit from deep learning techniques.

Reviewer 2: Great citations! Since we're standardizing on using "that is" rather than "i.e." (for now, word limits notwithstanding):

```suggestion
As long as data of sufficient quantity and quality is available (that is, large amounts of accurate and labeled data), applications to areas of biology with related data characteristics, such as genetic medicine [@doi:10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00290], radiology [@doi:10.1007/s11604-018-0726-3], microscopy [@doi:10.1364/OPTICA.4.001437], and pharmacovigilance [@doi:10.1093/jamia/ocw180], are similarly likely to benefit from deep learning techniques.
```

Alternatively, you could go with:

```suggestion
As long as large amounts of accurate and labeled data are available, applications to areas of biology with related data characteristics, such as genetic medicine [@doi:10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00290], radiology [@doi:10.1007/s11604-018-0726-3], microscopy [@doi:10.1364/OPTICA.4.001437], and pharmacovigilance [@doi:10.1093/jamia/ocw180], are similarly likely to benefit from deep learning techniques.
```

> For example, Ferreira et al. used deep learning to recognize individual birds from images [@doi:10.1111/2041-210X.13436] despite this problem being very difficult historicallly. By combining automatic data collection using RFID tags with data augmentation and transfer learning (explained in [Tip 5](#architecture)), the authors were able to use deep learning to achieve 90% accuracy in several species.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Ferreira et al. used deep learning to recognize individual birds from images [@doi:10.1111/2041-210X.13436] despite this problem being very difficult historicallly.
By combining automatic data collection using RFID tags with data augmentation and transfer learning (explained in [Tip 5](#architecture)), the authors were able to use deep learning to achieve 90% accuracy in several species.
```
Fixed one sentence per line but not sure it makes sense to use the cross-referencing tips.

Reviewer 2: Going to delete the cross references in a future PR so it's ok to leave them for now

> [This sentence feel like it comes out of nowhere - is there a way to 1) better integrate or 2) leave for a later tip?]Other research areas include generative models, in which new samples are able to be created based on the training data, and reinforcement learning, in which agents are trained to interact with their environments.

Reviewer 2: Which sentence are you referring to here? The sentence on the bird recognition or the generative and RL models sentence?

Author: Thanks @Benjamin-Lee

Here I was referring to the sentence 
```suggestion
Other research areas include generative models, in which new samples are able to be created based on the training data, and reinforcement learning, in which agents are trained to interact with their environments.
```
To me, it feels as though it doesn’t connect clearly to the previous sentence/paragraph or directly to the material introduced earlier. Is there a way to add some “connective tissue” to add it in? Or find another place it potentially fits better?

Reviewer 2: The reason I put that sentence there is that things like [style transfer](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/generative/style_transfer) (making one picture have the style of a painting) are pretty much impossible to do with traditional ML right now*. If your goal is something like that, you need DL.

I think the issue lies in the juxtaposition of the example of well done DL based biology research (e.g. the bird identification example). What about

```suggestion
Other research areas where deep learning excels are generative modeling, in which new samples are able to be created based on the training data, and reinforcement learning, in which agents are trained to interact with their environments.
```

*that I know of
